Hi, my name is Sharon Mckensky and today we are going to talk about the importance of taking down our oral history. Our oral history can actually be taken down in a number of forms. You can either do it through writing or what I prefer is to actually do it on the telephone. Now we all have an iPhone or a smart phone and the key element I really want to start with is before you actually do anything is make sure you've got enough battery and if possible set one phone up over this side and one phone up over this side. Just buy yourself a little handheld tripod and turn the camera around to you. So as you're filming you both can see yourself in the view of the phone. After a while you'll start talking to each other and you'll actually find that by talking to each other you'll actually forget that the actual phone is in front of you. Now this is the most important thing to do. Make sure you've got enough battery and make sure you turn your phones onto aeroplane mode. The reason we wanted onto aeroplane mode is that if somebody texts you or you're really in a great zone and all of a sudden somebody calls you. So don't forget to turn it back later on when you're actually finished. Now ladies and gentlemen 30 to 45 minutes is long enough to sit down and you're talking to somebody. Especially somebody's older. The idea of taking down our old history is to actually get the person who may be sick, may be passing away, may be old, may be beginning to suffer dementia or it could just be somebody young enough who actually has studied the family history. Now many times people say to me I'd love to know what my grandma and granddad were like but unfortunately they're dead. You know don't stress because what I did with my particular grandfather from my father's side and my father's side has also passed away as well is that I contacted his family and I asked my dad's brothers and sisters what their family will like. So you actually can still get the information from your past. It doesn't necessarily have to be from that particular person. I have a real belief in that you die three times. You die when you die, you die when you get buried and you die when the last person says your name. And what I find really interesting in today's world is that everything we do eat sleep for most part, especially millennials, goes on some form of social media, TikTok, Facebook, etc. Recently had a friend pass away and their social media was turned into a memorial page. What I find really interesting is that the generation I'm 60. I know I look amazing. But I am. What I actually find amazing is that listening to people in their 50s, 60s, 70s and 80s, of course social media didn't exist. So for them in particular their stories need to actually be written down. They need to be recorded and they need to be placed in a place where family members and others can share it. Don't script it ladies and gentlemen. Sit down with somebody just right in front of you and go Grandma, it's so lovely to talk to you today. Hey, can you tell us what year were you born in? What was your mum's name? Your dad's name? What was the first street you grew up on? What's your day to birth? Things along those lines are really great to start the video. But don't necessarily stick to a script. Because when you do, it actually stops you from interesting conversations. For example, Grandma used to tell me about Dolly Underwood and how they worked in a department store in the 1920s. And then she would go off and tell me stories of Dolly Underwood. And those stories were just as interesting as what this one was and this one was. So you don't actually have to do one video. You can do a series of these stories. And what I actually do find really interesting as well is if you pick up a photo. Now say, for example, it's a photo of your grandparents, your great grandparents, and your parents as well. And they were on a market drive to a country town or they were heading off to the Royal Show. Use it. One I did with Stacey Graham who lived on Park and Street I believe and that lived in an old picture. And what we did was we put that house up and the whole video is "Tell me about the house. Tell me about the business. Tell me who came. Tell me what you did." I have a photo and horn that actually has generational family members and they are all standing on a veranda. And then they actually have like music boxes in their hands. And the whole picture, I can see it in my head now, creates a video in my mind because I know that was a day. It was a Sunday. It was after church. The family came out. They were actually playing music. There was a little bit of whiskey swinging in the background. My great-grandmother made biscuits. My great-great-grandmother looked after the newborn babies. That one picture by asking family members what they knew about that big photo of that time in 1890 is something that blows my mind because that picture is now come to life. One of the saddest things I hear is that it's too late. It's never too late. Pick a time. Grum up. I'm coming over Sunday. Mum. We're going to be over there on Friday afternoon. Just basically sit and chat. And if they're uncomfortable, just let them know that you're going to put the video on in the background. But after a while, hold the hand. Put your hand on their knee or just use the props because the props take away from the looking at the camera. So there's some fantastic websites about questions to ask for oral history. There's some fantastic ideas of which some suit you, but it was all about suiting you. It might be that your great-grandmother was a politician. It might be about my great-grandmother was the first woman that crossed the Dalgenny bridge. She was also a lady that went out and side-saddled into the middle of the night to midwife babies. There's so many different stories and versions of a person's life. It's interesting. We talk about Jack the Ripper or Catherine Burnie, and our whole life revolves around them being the time of the murder. But their whole lives were so much more than that. No, I'm not suggesting that we do an oral history on Catherine Burnie. What I'm trying to say is that one part of their life was important is not the whole of their life. There is some really great websites, as I said, organized in a situation where you can be pertaining to figuring out some ideas, jot down some notes. You don't need to write a script. Just keep a little, what do you call it, hand notes, and just your next question, next question, next question. What online is ladies and gentleman? Just do it. Now, you can either then save it on Create a Can for Fire. You can actually put it on YouTube. And the beautiful thing about YouTube is that if you want it to go public, knock your socks off. But you can also upload it to YouTube, but as a private channel. And only those people with the link that you send can actually watch those videos. Let's keep the stories of your family alive. Some key points. Put your phone on aeroplane mode. Just do it. Turn the phone, one of them over here, another phone over here. Turn them around facing you as when you actually are taking the camera, like you can see and watch yourself recording yourselves. So, flip that little button that turns the picture around. Have fun with it. Have fun and enjoy. This has been a video on how to understand and utilise for oral history. I really look forward to sharing and hearing yours. your new materials.
